docs: Adaptive Triggers (#10292)
unoplatform/uno: doc/articles/features/AdaptiveTrigger.md

# Using Adaptive Triggers With Uno Platform Applications

## AdaptiveTrigger Class

Use the `AdaptiveTrigger` class to trigger a `<VisualState.Setters>` target. The target invokes changes in window properties, such as font size or panel orientation. 

For more information, please refer to Microsoft's documentation on the [AdaptiveTrigger class](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.xaml.adaptivetrigger?view=winrt-22621) and the [VisualState class.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.xaml.visualstate?view=winrt-22621)

> ## UWP vs. UNO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## WinUI vs. UNO
```

> In a standard UWP application, the sequential order of the adaptive trigger does not matter. The compiler will execute any `<VisualState.Setters>` target regardless of their order. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a standard UWP application, the sequential order of the adaptive trigger does not matter. The compiler will execute any `<VisualState.Setters>` target regardless of their order (See [this issue](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno/issues/2662) for more details). 
```

> In an Uno Platform application, the sequential order of the adaptive trigger does matter. In this instance, the compiler will execute the `<VisualState.Setters>` target when it finds the first matching occurrence. The compiler might ignore any subsequent adaptive triggers if the first matching property remains true for the life of the program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an Uno Platform application, the sequential order of the adaptive trigger does matter. In this instance, the `VisualState` will execute the `Setters` when it finds the first matching occurrence. Subsequent triggers may be ignored if the first matching property remains true for the life of the program.
```

## Sample XAML

Following is an example of three `<VisualState>` blocks. The blocks are non-sequential, ordered from `SmallScreen` to `LargeScreen` to `MediumScreen`. The expected output is to have the font size change as the window size changes.

> Each `<VisualState>` block has an adaptive trigger with a `MinWindowWidth` property. The property tells the compiler to execute the `VisualState.Setters` target whenever the window width is `>=` its integer value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each `<VisualState>` block has an adaptive trigger with a `MinWindowWidth` property. The property tells the `VisualState` to execute the `VisualState.Setters` whenever the window width is greater or equal to its integer value. 
```

                    <VisualState.StateTriggers>
                        <!--Increase FontSize to 20 when window width >=200 effective pixels.-->
                        <AdaptiveTrigger MinWindowWidth="200"/>
                    </VisualState.StateTriggers>
                    <VisualState.Setters>
                        <Setter Target="Block1.FontSize" Value="20"/>
                    </VisualState.Setters>
                </VisualState>
            </VisualStateGroup>
        </VisualStateManager.VisualStateGroups>

        <StackPanel x:Name="stackPanel" Orientation="Vertical">
            <TextBlock x:Name="Block1" Text="Sample text line 1."/>
            <TextBlock Text="Sample text line 2." FontSize="{Binding FontSize, ElementName=Block1, Mode=TwoWay}"/>
            <TextBlock Text="Sample text line 3." FontSize="{Binding FontSize, ElementName=Block1, Mode=TwoWay}"/>
        </StackPanel>
    </Grid>
</Page>

```
## Correct Output

In the above example, the `VisualState` blocks are sequential, ordered from `LargeScreen` to `MediumScreen` to `SmallScreen`. Because of this, the compiler will execute the first true occurrence in the order written. 

> The `LargeScreen` setter target is triggered when the window width is `>=` 1000 pixels. When this statement becomes false, the compiler executes the next setter target that matches, i.e. the `MediumScreen` block. When the `MediumScreen` adaptive trigger is false, the compiler finally executes the setter target for the `SmallScreen` block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `LargeScreen` setter target is triggered when the window width is `>=` 1000 pixels. When this statement becomes false, the `VisualState` executes the next setter target that matches, i.e. the `MediumScreen` block. When the `MediumScreen` adaptive trigger is false, the `VisualState` finally executes the setter target for the `SmallScreen` block.
```
